---
title: Ahoi
---

## All Firefox addons are disabled

[Some intermediate certificate reached it's EOL which had for effect to disable
all the browser addons](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1548973)

Firefox 67 and newer don't seem to be affected by this issue.

It took me a while to figure out how to switch version with [home-manager][]
so here is the fix:

```diff
   programs.firefox = {
     enable = true;
+    package = pkgs.firefox-devedition-bin-unwrapped // {
+      browserName = "firefox";
+    };
   };
```

It wasn't immediately obvious to me that home-manager uses `wrapFirefox` under
the hood so when it couldn't find the `firefox-devedition-bin` binary I tried
patching it on nixpkgs instead by overriding `pkgs.firefox-devedition-bin`.

Anways, it's fixed now.

## Dark mode for Firefox

refs:
* [MDN prefers-color-scheme](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-color-scheme)
* [Test page](https://davidwalsh.name/demo/prefers-color-scheme.php)
* [bugzilla that implements the feature](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1494034#c7)
* [code diff](https://hg.mozilla.org/integration/mozilla-inbound/rev/4739353088fc)

Good news everyone! Firefox 67 added support for `prefers-color-scheme`, a CSS
selector that can tell the website if one prefers a `light` (default) or
`dark` theme for the website.

Most websites probably don't support it but I'm curious to find out. Somehow I
think that it would be nice to avoid flashes when switching between the
terminal and browser during development.

This is a feature introduced by Apple, they have a "dark mode" toggle on the
OS level and that propagates to apps and websites.

SIDE NOTE: hey, this is yet another bit of information leak that can help
uniquely identify a user on the Internet.

### Setting the dark mode

Open [`about:config`](about:config) and create a new integer entry:

```
ui.systemUsesDarkTheme: 1
```

Hey look, if this doesn't work it's because Mozilla did the right thing
and disables that feature when `privacy.resistFingerprinting` is set to
`true`.

### Testing some websites

[darkmode websites](/darkmode-websites.md)

## Fixing vimwiki

`diary_rel_path` cannot be empty anymore? => fix by using `_posts` instead.

It would be nice if diary posts could double as jekyll posts

[home-manager]: https://github.com/rycee/home-manager

## Testing gist support

{% gist c08ee0f2726fd0e3909d %}

