# Exploring how nix-shell works

Goal: find out if nix-shell can be made faster or simpler.

reading [src/nix-build/nix-build.cc](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/blob/f9a2ea44867cd1dbb408bca4df0ced806137b7f7/src/nix-build/nix-build.cc)
it seems like the code is shared between nix-build and nix-shell

## Does setting `NIX_BUILD_SHELL` make `nix-shell` faster?

If `NIX_BUILD_SHELL` is not set, `nix-shell` will evaluate `(import <nixpkgs>
{}).bashInteractive` to find bash so in theroy it should be faster.

This means that it's required to also set the `NIX_PATH` to pin nixpkgs in all
of the cases.

### Test case

```nix
with import <nixpkgs> {};
mkShell {
  buildInputs = [
    ruby
    bundler
  ];
}
```

Running `time nix-shell --command "echo ok`:

```
time nix-shell --command "echo ok"
bash: /run/user/1000/env-vars: cannot overwrite existing file
ok

real	0m0.850s
user	0m0.624s
sys	0m0.224s
```

after running it 10 times, the lowest value was:

```
real	0m0.777s
user	0m0.563s
sys	0m0.208s

```

now after:
```
$ export NIX_BUILD_SHELL=$(readlink -f "$(which bash)")
```

```
real	0m0.773s
user	0m0.556s
sys	0m0.216s
```

and the lowest value of 10 was:

```
real	0m0.706s
user	0m0.517s
sys	0m0.195s
```

now compare with a naive env:

```nix
let
  pkgs = import <nixpkgs> {};
in
  pkgs.buildEnv {
    name = "my-env";
    paths = [ pkgs.ruby pkgs.bundler ];
  }
```

```
$ time nix-build env.nix 
/nix/store/98k22wz9rr6vgjynmipwihnk462bgvwq-my-env

real	0m0.316s
user	0m0.254s
sys	0m0.043s
```

### Conclusion

1. `nixpkgs` needs to be pinned using the `NIX_PATH` for completely
   reproducible environments
2. setting NIX_BUILD_SHELL makes nix-shell entry a bit faster but it's not
   substantial.
3. `nix-build` is twice as fast as `nix-shell`
   
## What is the `passAsFile` attribute?

According to the manual, it can be used to serialize large strings to the
store. Then a path is returned as an environment value instead.

## Random tidbits

`shopt -u nullglob` is set in the shell

## Conclusion

Ok I give up for now. Going back to work.


# Find out why jekyll doesn't support the `_posts/<YYYY>-<MM>-<DD>.md` format

in [jekyll/jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll)

* lib/jekyll/site.rb: Site.posts is a Collection of posts.
* lib/jekyll/collection.rb: we have .entries and .filtered_entries 
* lib/jekyll/readers/post_reader.rb should have the answer

`jekyll -b --verbose` doesn't list any of the posts.

found it!

`Document::DATE_FILENAME_MATCHER` is `/^(?:.+\/)*(\d{2,4}-\d{1,2}-\d{1,2})-(.*)(\.[^.]+)$/`

PR: https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll/pull/7649

# How to generate browable URLs from vim directly?
:indirect:

This is pretty amazing!

Some times when browing the code with vim, it becomes necessary to share the
position with other users or a blog post. If the code is hosted on GitHub, it
would be great to type a command in vim to get that URL directly.

Install [vim fugitive](/vim-fugitive) and
[vim-rhubarb](https://github.com/tpope/vim-rhubarb). Then open any repo code
file (eg: `direnv/direnv`).

`:Gbrowse` opens the browser to the right github file, including the right
branch. Pretty amazing!

It even works to select specific lines with Shift-V, select the lines and type
`:Gbrowse` again. Really cool.

# Random notes

* buy a shorter domain?
* what is the best way to rename a file with vim? => `:Gmove` is decent
* vimwiki tags syntax collides with the :emoji: syntax
